Scripture here.
Trust me, a blessing to you, 1 Peter 1 and verses 6 through 9, I'll be focused there,
but I really want to, before we even get to those particular verses, I want to start looking
at verses 3 through 5 by way of introduction.
I want you to notice, of course, Peter in this book, if you're familiar with 1 Peter,
he's writing to those that are scattered abroad because of the persecution that they're enduring.
But I want you to notice how the Apostle Peter seeks to encourage these brethren.
And notice what he says in verse number 3,
Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, which according to His abundant
mercy hath begotten us again unto a lively hope by the resurrection of Jesus Christ from
the dead.
You know what he's telling them?
You've been saved.
You've been born again.
You've been redeemed through the precious blood of Christ.
You have been begotten, born again.
Verse 4, notice what he tells them here.
To an inheritance incorruptible and undefiled, and that fadeth not away, reserved in heaven
for you.
Isn't that wonderful?
An inheritance, but he says this, that it's incorruptible, it's undefiled, it's fading
not away, and it's reserved in heaven for you.
I mean, that's wonderful, isn't it?
I mean, praise God.
Verse number 5, look at what he tells them here.
He says, who are kept by the power of God through faith unto salvation, ready to be
revealed in the last time.
Aren't you thankful that we're kept by the power of God?
Amen?
Listen, I'm glad I don't have to keep my own salvation, amen?
You couldn't earn your own salvation.
You can't keep your own salvation.
A preacher said this, if it was on me to keep my salvation, I'd have lost it right after
I got it, amen?
And here's the deal.
We're kept by the power of God, so I want you to notice what Peter says to these believers
in verses 3 through 5.
He says, listen, you're saved.
Isn't that wonderful?
I mean, just even if he didn't give us verse 4 and 5, I mean, just stop there.
You're saved.
You're going to heaven.
Amen?
Listen, I know sometimes we can live under the circumstances and it seems like, man,
all this crazy stuff, but we're going to heaven.
I heard a preacher say this, on your worst day and on my worst day, I mean, as terrible,
as awful as it could possibly be, you're not going to hell.
You're saved.
Isn't that awesome?
We need to be reminded of that.
He says you're saved.
He says this, that you have an inheritance.
He says this, that you're kept by the power of God.
And he begins verse number 6 by saying this, wherein ye greatly rejoice.
The truth that is revealed, the truths, I should say, that are revealed to us in verses
3, 4, and 5 should cause us as the people of God to greatly rejoice.
It should cause us, listen, to rejoice greatly, to understand that our names are written in
the book of life, to understand that no matter what we might face, no matter what we might
deal with, upon this earth, that I'm going to heaven.
Amen?
We sing with the kids, I'm going to heaven, can't wait, gonna see Jesus, can't wait.
But some of us, we don't live like that every day, right?
We're not mindful of these truths every day.
He says wherein, based upon the truth that I've just shared with you, ye greatly rejoice.
And then it says this, though now for a season.
Though now for a season, notice this, if need be, ye are in heaviness through manifold temptations.
The trial of your faith, being much more precious than of gold that perisheth, though it be
tried with fire, might be found under praise and honor and glory at the appearing of Jesus
Christ.
He's going to appear, he's coming back.
Notice verse 8, whom having not seen, ye love.
You've not seen him, but ye love him.
Why do you love him?
Because he first loved me, right?
I love him because he first loved me.
We sing about loving the Lord, we talk about loving him, and here Peter says you've not
seen him, but ye love him, and whom though now ye see him not yet believing, ye rejoice
with joy unspeakable and full of glory, receiving the end of your faith, even the salvation
of your souls.
See, the reality is that right there in verses 6 and 7, we sometimes don't like living there.
We don't like that season that Peter is referring to here, but I want you to understand that
as we notice in verse number 6, where it transitions from wherein ye greatly rejoice,
though now for a season if need be, you're in heaviness through manifold temptations,
and he says this, the trial of your faith.
If you're taking notes, I've simply entitled the message this evening, The Trial of Your
Faith.
There are some times in our lives that maybe we would be tempted to ask a question such
as this, why trials?
Why in the world do we have to deal with these things?
Now I would submit to you that even as I was meditating and just preparing this message
for this evening, that I was mindful of the fact that really any trial that I've endured
is really not much of anything to even discuss.
When I think about the trials that our brothers and sisters around the world that are currently
going through, when I read about trials that our brothers and sisters that have gone before
us have endured, when I read about the Apostle Paul and think of some of his trials, that
which I have endured, and I would probably say that which many of you have endured, are
really not even kind of showing up on the map, so to speak.
But we find that there are times in our lives that our faith is tested.
We have the trial of our faith.
I want you to understand really at the onset of the thought tonight that the truth that
is given to us in verses 3, 4, and 5, those truths that are mentioned there, that they
are secure and they are eternal.
No one's going to take your salvation from you.
He says that we have an inheritance.
Notice how he describes it.
Incorruptible, undefiled, fadeth not away, reserved in heaven for you.
That's pretty awesome, isn't it?
We're kept by the power of God.
These truths that are given here, they are secure and they are eternal.
However, when we would contrast the truths that are given to us in verses 3 and 5 versus
the trial of our faith that is mentioned in the next section of this passage, we would
find that the trial is simply temporary.
It's temporary.
And I would say this, it's necessary.
It's necessary.
And we'll get into that in just a moment.
But I really want you to think about the contrast between eternal and temporary.
We find that there are times, no doubt, that we might be dealing with a particular trial
and we think it's been going on for a lengthy period of time and we say, how long?
One thing that I know is it won't be forever.
Amen?
It won't be forever.
And that should cause us to rejoice.
As we look at this passage of Scripture and really just kind of consider some thoughts
this evening, someone said this with regard to the trial of our faith, a faith that cannot
be tested is a faith that cannot be trusted.
And I thought that was pretty powerful to consider it in that way.
A trial, the word that is used here in verse number 7, the trial of your faith, it's a
unique word and it really carries with it the idea of proving.
It carries with it this idea, that by which something is tried or proved, a test.
Now I remember being in school and going through, you know, elementary school and middle school,
high school, and you have tests, right, and many times you don't really enjoy tests a
whole lot.
But as I kind of got older and in those finishing up high school years and into college, I realized
something about tests.
Tests are actually helpful.
Sometimes we dread a test, but you know, a test reveals some things.
A test reveals what we know and what we don't know.
Sometimes we get so caught up in a test and what the score, what did I get on my test,
where did I place, what was my, but the reality is that a test is going to reveal some things
to us of what we know and what we don't know, and if we take the test properly and then
we respond to whatever it is that we find out, one of the responses that we would have
to a test is, okay, I got an 80 on this, then that means there's 20% of the material.
I need to go study and find out more.
I need to learn more.
I need to focus in these areas on these things, and what a blessing to have that revealed
to us.
And so I believe that a test has purpose, and no doubt that is the truth when we look
at the trial, the testing of our faith.
I would ask this, just a couple of thoughts tonight.
Number one, what is your perspective?
What is your perspective?
When a trial comes into your life, when a trial comes into my life, what is our perspective
of that trial?
How do we view it?
What is our immediate response to that particular trial?
Because I believe that perspective matters.
I believe this evening that if we can gain some truth
from not only this couple of verses in 1 Peter 1,
but we'll look at a few other verses throughout this book
and a couple of other places,
I believe that we can have a perspective
that will help us get the results
that we're supposed to get from the trial.
Number one under this thought is what is your perspective?
I want you to think about this.
I mentioned it already, they are temporary.
They're temporary.
Notice in verse number six, it says this,
wherein you greatly rejoice, though now for a season.
How many times you read the Bible
and the word of God, it says, and it came to pass.
And there was one fellow that was asked,
they were having this discussion
of what your favorite Bible verse is.
And he raised his hand and said,
preacher, my favorite Bible verse is it came to pass.
And the preacher said, I'm not really sure I know
which one you're talking about.
And he said, oh, you see it all over the place.
It came to pass.
It didn't come to stay.
And I thought it was pretty good, amen.
And the reality is that you notice what it says here,
though for a season, but then turn over
to chapter number five of 1 Peter,
and look at chapter number five, look at verse number 10.
Notice what Peter says as he's concluding this book,
this letter to these believers
that he's seeking to encourage.
He says this, but the God of all grace
who hath called us unto his eternal glory by Christ Jesus.
Again, notice the eternal perspective.
The fact that we've been saved,
he's called us unto his eternal glory by Christ Jesus.
Notice this, after that ye have suffered a while.
Again, it's a while.
I don't know how long a while is.
You don't know how long a while is, but it's not forever.
It's temporary, it's temporary.
And if I can gain that perspective
when I think about the trial that I might be facing,
the trial that you might be facing,
that if I can understand it within the context
that this is an eternal, I have some wonderful promises
with regard to eternity and some eternal things,
but this here, this is just temporary.
This is going to pass.
Number two, when I think about the perspective,
I would say this, trials are necessary.
You say, I beg to differ.
I'm sure many of us, when we have that trial,
that's probably not our first response.
Oh man, I must need this today, this is wonderful.
That's probably not how we respond.
But I'm trying to help myself
and hope to help someone else tonight as well.
Notice what it says in verse number six.
Though now for a season, if need be.
Who is it that determines if it's necessary?
Not you, God.
And can I say this?
God knows what we need.
He knows exactly what we need.
He knows when we need it.
He knows our frame.
He knows we're but dust.
He's created us.
And so He knows what we need, when we need it.
He knows how much we need, right?
He knows.
And so when we think about this tonight
and we think about this truth of if need be
and trying to form my perspective with regard to trials,
I'm mindful of what it says in Psalm 66 10.
For thou, O God, hast proved us.
Thou hast tried us as silver is tried.
It's God that does this work in our hearts and our lives.
And we see that it's temporary.
We notice that it's necessary.
I would say this.
Trials, they're common.
They're common.
Notice what it says in first Peter four.
It's interesting.
It's a different word that is used here
to describe the trial that is being mentioned here.
And of course, it says a fiery trial
and that's just one word in the Greek.
It's a very, again, an interesting word.
But I want you to notice that Peter's saying
to these believers, he says, beloved,
think it not strange concerning the fiery trial
which is to try you as though some strange thing
happened unto you.
As I look at that truth in verse number 12,
I say, look it, this isn't a strange thing
that's happened to us.
This is a common thing.
It's something that we deal with in life.
We have these trials.
And we find that after revealing this truth
to these believers, he then says,
but rejoice, in verse number 13,
inasmuch as you are partakers of Christ's sufferings,
that when his glory shall be revealed,
ye may be glad also with exceeding joy.
He says, if you be reproached for the name of Christ,
notice this, happy are ye.
Happy are ye.
If a man suffers a Christian, in verse number 16,
it says, let him not be ashamed,
but let him glorify God on this behalf.
And so we find that these trials,
that when we try to form our perspective
with regard to trials, that we say they're temporary,
they're necessary, they're common.
I want you to consider the example of Paul.
Keep your place here in 1 Peter,
but turn over to 2 Corinthians chapter number four,
if you will.
And after we read part of this verse,
I want you to hold your spot here again
because we'll come back at the end
to this verse of Scripture as well.
But I want you to notice the perspective
of the Apostle Paul.
And of course, we don't have time this evening
to discuss all of the things that Paul suffered
and that he dealt with.
But we understand, if you wanna jot down in your notes,
you can look back over later to 2 Corinthians 11,
really, verses 22 down through verse number 30,
and just see all of the things that Paul endured.
And as you think about his missionary journeys
and his endeavors as he was serving the Lord,
all that he dealt with,
and yet he says this in verse 16 of 2 Corinthians 4,
for which cause we faint not,
but though our outward man perish,
yet the inward man is renewed day by day.
Notice verse 17, for our light affliction,
which is but for a moment.
So he calls it a light affliction,
and then he says that it's only for a moment.
Again, we talked about there being temporary.
If need be, it says, though for a season, if need be.
It says that after you've suffered a while.
Listen, when we think about eternity
in light of our lives, it really is just that long.
I mean, our entire life in view of eternity, right?
If you live 70 years, if you live 100 years,
somebody said to me the other day,
they wanna live to be 102.
I don't know how in the world they got the number 102,
but they came up with 102,
and they told me they wanna live to be 102,
and look, I don't wanna live to be 102.
I'm just being honest with you.
I'd rather just go to heaven, amen?
But the reality is that they said they wanna be 102.
Listen, if they live to be 102,
it's just that long with regard to eternity.
So how long is the trial within the 102 years,
or the 70 years, or how many years God gives us?
The trial's even shorter than the life.
It's just a moment.
Now, we're living in it, so we feel like it's forever, right?
When is this gonna ever end?
When am I gonna get relief?
I understand.
But again, we're trying to gain this perspective of trials.
And as we look at 1 Peter, and really the whole of the book,
and then look at the example of Paul,
I believe that it will help us to have this perspective
that would enable us to endure the trials
in the manner in which we ought to,
so that, number two in your notes,
what is it that trials produce?
What is our perspective, but then what do trials produce?
And see, I want the trial, if I understand properly,
as I mentioned a moment ago about test,
that tests have a purpose.
Trials have a purpose, amen?
And there's a purpose in that trial,
and if I understand the purpose,
and I understand that God's trying
to produce something in me,
he's trying to produce something in you,
then that's going to my perspective
and my understanding of that,
then I say, well, what is it that it produces?
1 Peter chapter number one, where we started,
notice in verse number seven, as he begins,
he says that the trial of your faith,
notice how he describes the trial of our faith,
being much more precious than of gold that perisheth.
Now, remember, he's talking about,
verses three through five, the eternal perspective, right?
These truths that he's given to us,
and then he says, listen, the trial of your faith,
it's more precious, it's much more precious
than of gold that perisheth, though it be tried with fire,
and he's talking about that gold
that's been tried with fire
and just the preciousness of that gold,
but then as he makes that comparison to our faith
as it's being tried, he says that it might be found
unto praise and honor and glory
at the appearing of Jesus Christ.
I believe the first thing that a trial produces,
it refines us, it refines us.
We look at that trial, that fiery trial
that is mentioned in 1 Peter four in verse number 12,
and that literally carries with it the idea
it would be used in the context of a refiner's fire.
That Greek word would be used in that context,
and these individuals, they understood what that was.
Some of us have never perhaps seen and witnessed
the process of refining metal
and seeing how they go through that process
to get the impurities out.
We think about the word of God,
and as God says in Psalm 12,
of God as silver tried in a furnace seven times, and speaking of the purity,
and we find that maybe we've not encountered that or seen that, it's a
it's a really exciting study to see how all that stuff works, but God is refining
us. That's awesome. That he has enough interest in us to refine us. Here's what
Job says, now you think about Job, he had some difficulties, did he not? You read
Job chapter number one. Wow. Wow. As one servant is speaking, telling about a
calamity, another one's coming to tell about the next thing, right? You ever been
in a position where you say, I don't want any more news today. I mean look, it's all
been, I just can't handle it, no more. Wait until another day. Yeah, that was Job, he
didn't say that, but that's how it was working out, but notice what he says as
he's replying to Eliphaz in Job 23 10, he says this, but you know it the
way that I take, when he hath tried me, I shall come forth as gold. When he, God,
hath tried me, I shall come forth as gold. See, he refines us. What is it that's
produced, that refining? I believe that what is produced also is patience. Notice
in James chapter number one, the Bible says there in James 1, talking about the
the trial, of course, that is being dealt with here to start this particular book
in James chapter 1 verse 2, my brethren, count it all joy when you fall into
diverse temptations, knowing this. You know there's some things God wants us to
know, right? Why? Because that knowing something helps our perspective and
helps us to be able to endure it, and we're noticing here, again, it really
could kind of go all together with our perspective because we're knowledgeable
of these things, and it helps us to endure them in a proper way. He says in
verse number three, knowing this, that the trying of your faith worketh patience.
The trying of your faith worketh patience. I believe also that it produces
maturity. Go back to first Peter, if you will, chapter number five. First Peter
chapter number five. These are interconnected, no doubt, when you speak
about the refining and you speak about the maturity. In first Peter chapter
number five, we read part of verse number ten a moment ago, speaking about the fact
that trials are temporary. The Bible says, but the God of all grace who hath called
us unto his eternal glory by Christ Jesus, after that ye have suffered a
while, notice this, make you perfect, establish, strengthen, settle you. I
believe that's maturity. If I could take all of those words and sum it up in one
word, I would say it's spiritual maturity. When we think about the spiritual
maturity, you know, the believers in Corinth, Paul says to them, I can't speak
to you as unto spiritual, I have to speak to you as unto carnal. You're
babes in Christ. Now, it's one thing to be a babe in Christ because you just got
saved. That's normal, that's acceptable. You're to grow in grace, amen,
desire the sincere milk of the Lord that you may grow thereby, but it's a problem
when you're Hebrews chapter number five context, and in the time that you ought
to be teachers, you have need that one teach you, they're still babes in Christ.
They were supposed to be at a place where they had matured spiritually. Can I
tell you that as we have this proper perspective of trials, that we'd
understand again that these trials are working in us, that are producing in us
this spiritual maturity, after that you have suffered a while, make you perfect,
establish, strengthen, settle you. Wow, that's spiritual maturity, and we find
this evening that as we would look at the the truth that Peter is given to
these believers in 1st Peter, and we've kind of scattered through a couple of
thoughts in a couple of different chapters here, and we noticed that Peter
is trying to encourage these believers. They were going through some real
difficult times. I want to use the example of Paul once again in closing. I
asked you to keep your spot there in 2nd Corinthians chapter number four, and
again we read part of that verse in verse number 17, and he said that our
light affliction, which is but for a moment, and again having that
understanding that these trials are temporary and really they're just a
light affliction, notice what he says, notice how he describes it in verse
number 17 at the end,
"...worketh for us a far more exceeding and eternal weight of glory, while we look
not at the things which are seen, but at the things which are not seen." So the
things which are seen are temporal, the things which are not seen are eternal.
You know, as human beings, it's a whole lot easier for us to focus on the trial,
on the temporary, than it is for us to focus on the promises, the eternal, that
Peter prefaced that section with in 1st Peter 1. Why? Because the trial is in our
face, it's something that we're dealing with, it's something that we're going
through. But while we look not at these things which are temporal, these things
which are seen, we're having that eternal perspective. I think about those in
various places around the world, of course at this particular time we think
of those that are in Afghanistan, it's the biggest thing kind of that we're
faced with right now, as far as looking at someone that's facing a real serious
situation, a trial, that quite frankly I don't think any of us can really
relate to. I just can't, I can't. I can't relate to someone knocking on my door to
find out if I have a Bible or if I have a Bible app on my phone for the purpose
of imprisoning or killing me. I can't understand that. We've been spoiled in
America, we really have. And sometimes we got a little something going on and
we're like, oh man I have such a huge trial, and then something like this
happens on the world stage and it helps us to kind of re-evaluate things and say
you know what it really isn't that bad. And we have this perspective, listen
it's easy for us to get into the weeds, so to speak, when we're dealing with a
trial. But I hope tonight that as we do just a brief study of these verses of
Scripture and the the truth that that Peter is seeking to encourage these
believers with, that it would help us to have a perspective of trials that would
help us to properly endure them so that we could see these things produced in
our lives. God uses trials to produce things in our lives. No doubt there are
times in which we would think, oh I wish everything would just be so easy and I'd
never have any problems and everything would just work. But we become very
independent in a state like that, do we not? And Jesus said without me you can do
nothing. And so there are times in which he brings us to a place, through a trial
perhaps, where we understand in a greater way how much we need him. And we learn
things about him that otherwise we would not have learned. The trial of your faith.
Oh that God would help us to develop a perspective that would be biblical, that
would help produce in us what God desires to produce. Let's pray. Father we
love you. We thank you for loving us. We thank you for the work that you do in
our hearts and lives. We thank you that you know what we need, when we need, how
much we need. We thank you that it's just for a season, just for a little while.
Though we do not know the specified period of time, we can rejoice in knowing
that it's not forever. God would you help us to be mindful of the promises, the
truths that were given in verses 3 through 5 with regard to the fact that
we're saved and we have an inheritance and that we're kept by the power of God.
What a blessing to be mindful of the fact that on our worst day, when the
worst of circumstances, that the second death hath no power over us. Pray that you
bless our time of prayer. Thank you for the privilege. I pray that you'd
encourage us as we read about the missionaries. Help us to pray
appropriately for these missionaries. Help us to pray one for another as we
fulfill the truth that you've given us in your word, to pray one for another.
And Lord, we thank you that you hear and answer prayer, that you're able to do
exceeding abundantly above all that we ask or think. Bless now and we'll thank
you for it. In Christ's name we pray, amen.
Does anyone need a prayer bulletin?